Revise: `autofocus` attribute & property Docs (#42791)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/reference/global_attributes/autofocus/index.md

sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

> The **`autofocus`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes) is a Boolean attribute indicating that an element should be focused on page load, or when the {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} or [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/popover) element that it is part of is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`autofocus`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes) is a Boolean attribute indicating whether the element should be focused on page load or, if it is nested inside a {{htmlelement("dialog")}} or [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/popover) element, when the `<dialog>` or popover is shown.
```

```html
<input name="q" autofocus />
```

Only one element in the document, or part of a dialog or popover element, may have this attribute specified. If applied to multiple elements the first focusable one will receive focus.

> [!NOTE]
> The `autofocus` attribute applies to all elements, not just form controls. For example, it might be used on a [contenteditable](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/contenteditable) area.

> [!NOTE]

> > On page load, when a [URI fragment](/en-US/docs/Web/URI/Reference/Fragment) points to a focusable element, that element usually receives focus instead of the one indicated by the `autofocus` attribute.

Reviewer: OK, so this isn't as simple as I'd hoped. In that case, I think you should say something to qualify the "usually", but I'd be happy for you to gloss over it a bit. Maybe just a single sentence added to the paragraph, along the lines of "For example, this behavior is true when ... , but in some cases such as ... , it is false."

sidebar: htmlsidebar
---

The **`autofocus`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes) is a Boolean attribute indicating whether the element should be focused on page load or, if it is nested inside a {{htmlelement("dialog")}} or [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/popover) element, when the `<dialog>` or popover is shown.

```html
<input name="q" autofocus />
```

Only one element inside a document, `<dialog>` element, or popover may have this attribute specified. If applied to multiple elements, the first focusable one will receive focus.

> [!NOTE]
> The `autofocus` attribute applies to all elements, not just form controls. For example, it might be used on a [contenteditable](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/contenteditable) area.

> [!NOTE]
> On page load, if a [URI fragment identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/URI/Reference/Fragment#fragment) is specified and identifies an element,

> > the element with the `autofocus` attribute does not receive focus via the `autofocus` attribute.

Reviewer: As you've written this now, the note explains what _doesn't_ happen, but not what does happen. It really feels like it could do with an extra sentence on the end, along the lines of "Generally, the element referenced by the fragment receives focus instead."

Given the behavior your testing pointed to, I appreciate this might be seen as somewhat vague, but perhaps we should just go with something like this for now, in the interests of getting this merged. We can always modify it again later if new comments are made on it.
